= Gherkin

Fast Gherkin lexer and parser based on Ragel. Gherkin is two things:

* The language that has evolved out of the Cucumber project.
* This library

Supported platforms:

* Ruby 1.8.6-1.9.2 (MRI, JRuby, REE, Rubinius)
* Pure Java
* .NET
* IronRuby (experimental)
* Javascript (coming soon)

== Installing the toolchain

Due to the cross-platform nature of this library, you have to install a lot of tools to build gherkin yourself.
In order to make it easier for occasional contributors to get the development environment up and running, you don't
have to install everything up front. The build scripts should tell you if you are missing something. For example,
you shouldn't have to install MinGW to build windows binaries if you are a Linux user and just want to fix a bug in
the C code.

=== Common dependencies

* Ragel (brew install ragel or apt-get install ragel)
* Ruby (any version should do) - to run the Rake build script
* A clone of the cucumber git repo to a "cucumber" sibling folder of your gherkin folder.
* RVM (you may not need this if you are only building for a single platform)

With this minimal toolchain installed, install Ruby gems needed by the build:

  gem install bundler
  bundle install

Running RSpec and Cucumber tests

  rake clean spec cucumber

If the RL_LANG environment variable is set, only the parsers for the languages specified there will be built.
E.g. in Bash, export RL_LANG="en,fr,no". This can be quite helpful when modifying the Ragel grammar.

See subsections for building for a specific platform.

=== MRI, REE or Rubinius

You'll need GCC installed.

Build the gem with:

  rake build

=== Pure Java and JRuby

You must install JRuby to build the pure Java jar or the JRuby gem:

  rvm install jruby
  rvm use jruby
  rvm gemset create cucumber
  rvm use @cucumber
  gem install bundler
  bundle install

Now you can build the jar with:

  rake clean jar

=== .NET and IronRuby

You must install Mono and IKVM to build the pure .NET dll and the IronRuby gem:

* Install Mono from http://www.mono-project.com/ and make sure it's on your $PATH
* Download IKVM from http://www.ikvm.net/ and extract it to /usr/local/ikvm so that you have a /usr/local/ikvm/bin/ikvmc.exe

Now you can build the .NET dll with:

  rake ikvm

=== MinGW Rubies (for Windows gems)

You must install MinGW rubies to build gems fow Windows.
First you need to download and install MinGW:

OS X users can get it from http://crossgcc.rts-software.org/doku.php
Once you have installed it, add this to your .bashrc:

  export PATH=$PATH:/usr/local/i386-mingw32-4.3.0/bin

Now, let's install some rubies.
Make sure you have openssl installed first.

  brew install openssl

  # 1.8.6
  # Don't worry about inconsistent patchlevels here. It works.
  rvm install 1.8.6-p399
  rvm use 1.8.6-p399
  rvm gemset create cucumber
  rvm use @cucumber
  gem install bundler
  bundle install
  rake-compiler cross-ruby VERSION=1.8.6-p287

  # 1.9.1
  # Later 1.9.1 patch levels or 1.9.2 don't compile on mingw.
  # The compiled binaries should still work on 1.9.2
  rvm install 1.9.1-p243
  rvm use 1.9.1-p243
  rvm gemset create cucumber
  rvm use @cucumber
  gem install bundler
  bundle install
  rake-compiler cross-ruby VERSION=1.9.1-p243

== Release process

* Bump version in the VERSION file and:
** java/pom.xml
** ikvm/Gherkin/Gherkin.csproj
* Commit changes.
* rake gems:prepare && ./build_native_gems.sh && rake release:ALL
* Announce on Cucumber list, IRC and Twitter.

== Configuring Rake-Compiler for cross compilation
In order to build Windows binaries (so we can release Windows gems from OS X/Linux) we need to set up rake-compiler.

http://github.com/luislavena/rake-compiler/

I didn't want to install macports (I'm on homebrew) and I couldn't figure out how to build MinGW myself. I got prebuilt binaries (version 4.3.0):
http://crossgcc.rts-software.org/doku.php - just add the bin folder to your PATH

== Note on Patches/Pull Requests
 
* Fork the project.
* Run rake ragel:rb to generate all the I18n lexers
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with Rakefile, VERSION, or History.txt.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but
   bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2009-2010 Mike Sassak, Gregory Hnatiuk, Aslak Hellesøy. See LICENSE for details.
